# Hospitality_DataSet_EDA
Welcome to the Hospitality Dataset EDA (Exploratory Data Analysis) repository! This project is focused on analyzing and visualizing data from a hotel chain. Through this analysis, we aim to uncover insights and patterns that can help understand the dynamics of the hospitality and service industry.

## Data Overview
1. dim_date.csv file contains information of the dates related to bookings in fact_bookings.csv.
2. dim_hotels.csv file contains information about all the hotels in AtliQ hotel chain and their types.
3. dim_rooms.csv file contains information about the types of rooms in hotels.
4. fact_aggregated_bookings file contains information about successful bookings and capacity which are related to check in date.
6. fact_bookings.csv file contains information about revenues and booking platforms which are related to all bookings.

## Tool -> Jupyter Notebook.

## Approach
Step 1 -> Merging the dimensions tables with fact tables.
Step 2 -> Data Cleaning by deleting all the unecessary columns, renaming columns and droping the null values.
Step 3 -> Displaying the dataset info and dimensions.
Step 4 -> Extracting important insights from datasets.
Step 4 -> Data Visualization which helps to uncover trends and patterns.

### Key Performance Indicators
1. room_class: This column represents to which class[Standard, Elite, Premium, Presidential] particular room type belongs.
2. successful_bookings: This column represents all the successful room bookings that happen for a particular room type in that hotel on that particular date.
3. capacity: This column represents the maximum count of rooms available for a particular room type in that hotel on that particular date.
4. booking_platform: This column represents in which way the customer booked his room.
5. ratings_given: This column represents the ratings given by the customer for hotel services.
6. booking_status: This column represents whether the customer cancelled his booking[Cancelled], successfully stayed in the hotel[Checked Out] or booked his room but not stayed in the hotel[No show].
7. revenue_generated: This column represents the amount of money generated by the hotel from a particular customer.
8. revenue_realized: This column represents the final amount of money that goes to the hotel based on booking status. If the booking status is cancelled, then 40% of the revenue generated is deducted and the remaining is refunded to the customer. If the booking status is Checked Out/No show, then full revenue generated will goes to hotels.


### Skills Acquired
1. Data Cleaning
2. Data Analysis
3. Data Visualization
4. Python
5. Numpy, Pandas, Seaborn and Matplotlib

#### Note
If there is a problem previewing the jupyter notebook on GitHub, please download the raw file and try to view file in your Jupyter Notebook.
